# TEI XML Exercise  
  
Learners should consult our February 12th/14th lesson, [Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints), while completing this exercise. For this exercise learners will be working in teams to analyze some of the Lili Elbe project's German and Danish encoded [archival materials](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials).   
  
## Logistics  
  In this assignment learners will practice uploading and downloading to Github, writing in markdown on the GitHub issues board, project-team online collaboration, XML schema assocation, the reading of `<oXygen/>` validation errors, and XML prosopography proofing.   
    
### Downloading/Uploading on GitHub & Associating Project Schema to XML file in `<oXygen/>`  
One *(or more)* learners will need to **download both your specific team's XML *(.xml file in document > archival materials folder)* and [our project schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/blob/master/WIKIandREADMEmaterials/MIWschema.rng)**. Then, one *(or more)* learners will need to **associate our project schema to your team's assigned XML**. Instructions to download and associate are available under the section title "[How to Associate the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's (TEI-based) Schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints#how-to-associate-the-lili-elbe-digital-archives-tei-based-schema)" of our [Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints) lesson.      
  
There will not by anything each team needs to upload to SAKAI; however, **one member from each team will be required to re-upload the team's assigned XML file in the same folder said member downloaded the original XML from to receive credit for correctly associating the project schema**. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then you will upload your XML in the [German_letter2 folder](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials/German_archive/German_letter2) with the same name as the original XML - `German_letter2.xml`.  
  
### Writing in Markdown
**Each learner will respond in markdown on their team's issue the answers to our questions and information requests detailed in the ["Requirements"](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/blob/master/Exercises/TEIxml_exercise.md#requirements) section of this exercise.** Each team has been assigned on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues) an issue titled with the name of the document their team is responsible for proofing. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then your issue on the issues board is titled ["German Letter 2"](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues/9). In order to complete this assignment, **each learner of the team must equally contribute** by responding on the specific issue they are assigned. **We encourage teams to communicate primarily on their team's issue.** Additionally, remember writing on the issues board means there is the ability to **write in markdown**. More information about writing on the issues board can be found on our [Working-in-GitHub wiki under the title Using our Issues Board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Working-in-GitHub#using-our-issues-board).         
    
## Requirements   
1. Navigate to your team's issue on [the issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues). Click on the link to the schema file - `MIWschema.rng`. On the right side near the top of the file's content click the button that gives you the "Raw" view of the file. From there you can copy and paste or right click and save the file. **Be sure to keep the filename the same as it appears in our repository - `MIWschema.rng`**. Then navigate back to your team's issue on [the issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues). Click on the link to the folder of materials for your text. *All of [the project's archival materials](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials) can also be reached through the `ProjectDocs` folder.* In your team's text folder you will see multiple files and possibly a folder. The contents of the files are identifiable by their file extensions. The file that will need to download is the file with the `.xml` file extension. The XML file contains the *encoded* transcribed and translated text and will be the file you are proofing for this exercise. **Be sure to keep the filename the same as it appears in our repository when downloading.** The other files in your team's folder are Microsoft Word Documents that contain original transcriptions/translations and the PDFs or image files (which, if more than two, will be in a separate folder within your text's primary folder). These other files are there for your team's reference but are not required to be downloaded at this time. **At this point, you should have your team's XML file and the Project Schema file downloaded to your computer.**  
  
2. Each team member, after downloading both the schema and the team's `.xml` file, will then need to associate [the project schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/blob/master/WIKIandREADMEmaterials/MIWschema.rng) with your team's assigned XML document. Instructions to associate the schema are available under the section title "[How to Associate the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's (TEI-based) Schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints#how-to-associate-the-lili-elbe-digital-archives-tei-based-schema)" of our [Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints) lesson.  **At this point, one learner will be responsible for re-uploading your team's assigned XML to your assigned document's folder in [the archival materials folder](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials) of our class repository.**  You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for uploading the team's correctly associated XML to GitHub.    

3. **One or more team members then should review the schema-validated XML and report a 2-4 sentence explanation of any errors firing in the XML on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues).** *Please note every XML included in the archival materials folder, for this exercise, will fire a schema validation error; therefore, if `<oXygen/>` does not turn red upon association then you have not correctly associated the project schema.*  To check where a validation error is occuring in the document you can either look for a red and white exclaimation point icon in the outline view or click on the red hashmark(s) to the right of the document scroll-bar.  A proper report of each validation error will inform us of the element and or attribute the error is firing on and a learner's thoughts on why they think the error is occuring by decoding `<oXygen/>`'s error message and/or deciphering the encoding in relation to other elements/attributes in the document that are not firing validation errors.  You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for writing the validation error report if you choose not to build it together.       
    
4. Next, **one or more team members will need to identify and construct a list of the unique places and people mentioned in your team's XML**. This list should be built on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues). Refer to our [spreadsheet of propography IDs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TGp-RpKQi7rLHhdZTs4Vr6Ft91kPipfBwQR_7ii9bng/edit?usp=sharing) to verify each person and place has been given the correct key attribute value. Be sure to list on your team's issue the key IDs of each mentioned person and place and a count of the times each person and place are mentioned. If a person/place doesn't have a key ID in our spreadsheet or in the XML please indicate this in your list of people and places. You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for writing the list of people and places and their key IDs if you choose not to build the list together.  

5.  Finally, **each team member should select two different elements used in the XML *(in the `.xml` file)* and reflect in 2-4 sentences how the project has further constrained the original TEI element.** *If you are on a team of two, in total the team should have 4 2-4 sentence reports on 4 different elements. If you are on a team of three, in total the team should have 6 2-4 sentence reports on 6 different elements.*  Please refer to the [TEI Guidelines](https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index.html) and [our MIW Encoding Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ReYDRpBSuiVPZsVoj2gOfuz_HP2whJwX-thl4ZtPUws/edit?usp=sharing) for documentation on the TEI's use of an element versus our project team's use. **Each learner is responsible for providing their 2 reports on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues).** For example: if you choose the persName and placeName elements *(which because they are being used here as examples you should not)* then you would write about how the project has constrained the TEI elements persName and placeName by adding the key attribute and unique key attribute values. You then should explain what the constraint seems to be doing. So in our previous example you would say something like: the project uses the key attribute-value pair to link the mentions of people/places across texts. You should not repeat elements in your group; therefore, you should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be writing about what elements.  
