# TEI Header Exercise
  
To complete this assignment it might be useful to have more than one tab/window open. For example you might want to keep this exercise open in one tab and your team's issue on the issue board open in another tab/window. To open more than one tab/window right click on a link and select open in new tab/window. For this exercise learners will be working in teams to create `<teiHeader>` elements for some of the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's German and Danish encoded archival materials. Learners should consult our February 21st lesson, [Capturing Metadata in the `<teiHeader>`](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Capturing-Metadata), while completing this exercise.    
  
## Objectives & Exercise Rationale  
  In this assignment learners will practice uploading to Github, writing in markdown on the GitHub issues board, project-team online collaboration, metadata collection, and XML encoding. _This section of the exercise explains expectations and student's should jump down to the "Step-By-Step Process" section of this exercise for more detailed instructions on how to complete these tasks._     
    
### Uploading on GitHub & Creating a well-formed XML document in `<oXygen/>`  
  One learner on the team *(or as a team)* will need to create a new TEI XML document in `<oXygen/>` and edit the `<teiHeader>` element to include the information specified in the Step-By-Step process section of this exercise. By the end of this assignment, one learner from each team *(or as a team)* will upload their team's completed `<teiHeader>` element as a `.xml` file to your team's assigned text's folder.     
  
### Writing in Markdown & Working on a Team    
Learners will need to communicate on their team's issue board to divide up tasks and report on progress. Each team has been assigned on our class's issues board an issue titled with the name of the document their team is responsible for creating the `<teiHeader>` element. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then your issue on the issues board is titled "German Letter 2". Because the primary task of this exercise involves encoding in XML and not solely answering questions on the issues board a team might decide on the encoding to include in their `<teiHeader>` by collaboratively writing the different descendent elements of their `<teiHeader>` element in the issues board. In order to complete this assignment, each learner of the team must equally contribute by responding on the specific issue they are assigned. **We encourage teams to communicate primarily on their team's issue.** Additionally, remember writing on the issues board means there is the ability to **write in markdown**. To include a block of encoding (XML elements and attributes) place four ticks (apostrophe like character to the right of the number 1 key on a standard keyboard) before and after the code block. To include a single line of encoding simply include a single tick before and after the line. More information about writing on the issues board can be found on our Working-in-GitHub wiki under the title [Using our Issues Board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Working-in-GitHub#using-our-issues-board).    
  
## Step-By-Step Process  
1. Navigate to your team's issue on GitHub and discuss as a team how you will organize the document's metadata into the various descendant (children/grandchildren) elements of your text's `<teiHeader>` element. Reference [the project's `<teiHeader>` template](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Capturing-Metadata#sample-teiheader) for the expected elements and attributes. Your team will need to use the screenshot of the TEI header information _(provided by project manager Emily Datskou)_ as well as the existing XML encoding, photograph(s) of the letter _(a.k.a the facsimile images)_, and the translation/transcription documents all available in your text's folder in order to fill-in the parts of the template where there are placeholder `<!-- XML comments -->`.
   
 2. After your team determines how the metadata fits into the various elements and attributes of the parent `<teiHeader>` element, as a team or one designated team member will need to **include the XML (as in the elements and attributes decided on in your team's issue) in the `<teiHeader>` element of a new TEI XML document**. To begin, open a new TEI file in `<oXygen/>` by opening the `<oXygen/>` editor program and clicking on the top left icon that looks like a corner-folded piece of paper (or going to File → New) and typing TEI in the search box. In the results, look for the TEI P5 options and choose the first one: All. Look at the TEI file and notice its characteristic two-part structure, with the `<teiHeader>` and `<text>` elements that are the children of the root element `<TEI>`. For this assignment we will be working only with the `<teiHeader>` portion of the document. Some learners, as part of their final semester-project, will be combining the `<teiHeader>` elements created by the class in this assignment with their respective XML files associated to the schema in the previous TEI XML execise. If you do not want to go through the process of copying and pasting elements from the template and/or opening a new TEI XML document then you can [download the TEI Header template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/master/ProjectDocs/TEIHeader_Template.xml) using your knowledge of how to download from GitHub developed in the last exercise.  
   
 3. Once the various metadata bits are included in the `<teiHeader>`, as a team or one designated team member will then need to **upload the XML file containing the new `<teiHeader>` to your text's specified folder**. Please name your XML the same as the XML file already existing in your folder but with `_header` following the name. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then you will navigate on GitHub to the German_letter2 folder in the German_archive folder and upload your XML with the name `German_letter2_header.xml` because the original XML in the folder is named `German_letter2.xml`. *Please note:* You will name your TEI Header file when saving it in the `<oXygen>` editor. Your file should automatically be an XML file because you opened the file from a new TEI All XML template or the provided project template. Return to your team's assigned issue and report the TEI Header file is uploaded.    
   
 4. The final task in completing this assignment is returning to your assigned team's issue and having **a discussion with your teammate(s) about two (three if in a team of three) elements or attributes discussed in [the TEI Header section of the TEI Guidelines](https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/HD.html) that are not being used in our project's [`<teiHeader>` template](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Capturing-Metadata#sample-teiheader)**. Your discussion must have one 2-3 sentence statement from each team member about an unused element or attribute and a response from each team member to a fellow team member(s) statement(s). So, if in a team of two, each learner is responsible for writing one statement about an unused element and a response to their teammate's statement. And, if in a team of three, each learner is still responsible for writing one statement about an unused element and must respond to at least one if not both of their other teammates' responses.   
   
### Recommended Team workflow  
The absolute first step to completing this work is getting in contact with your teammate(s) via your team's issue. Next, as a team, identify the parts of the assignment you each are most comfortable with completing. The person most comfortable with uploading to GitHub should be the point person for doing step 3; whereas, the person most comfortable with combining the various elements into the final TEI Header XML file should be the point person for step 2. Because the nature of this work is really reliant on team communication we will be alotting 20 minutes in class on Tuesday (2/26) for your team to bring everything together. Prior to Tuesday it will benefit your group to develop, in your team's issue, each of the elements expected in your new TEI header. I recommend dividing the required elements amongst your teammates and then for each of you to copy whole elements from the project's [`<teiHeader>` template](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Capturing-Metadata#sample-teiheader) and replace the comment tags and any incorrect information with the information specific to your team's particular text. If you each contribute to this on your issues board then the literal XML document creation and upload to GitHub process can be final steps done in or after class on Tuesday. Please tag me, @RJP43, in your team's issue with questions and concerns.   
