# TEI XML Exercise  
  
To complete this assignment it might be useful to have more than one tab/window open. For example you might want to keep this exercise open in one tab and your team's issue on the issue board open in another tab/window. To open more than one tab/window right click on a link and select open in new tab/window. For this exercise learners will be working in teams to analyze some of the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's German and Danish encoded archival materials. Learners should consult our February 12th/14th lesson, [Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints), while completing this exercise.    
  
## Objectives & Exercise Rationale  
  In this assignment learners will practice uploading and downloading to Github, writing in markdown on the GitHub issues board, project-team online collaboration, XML schema assocation, the reading of `<oXygen/>` validation errors, and XML prosopography proofing. This section of the exercise simply explains expectations and student's should jump down to the "Step-By-Step Process" section of this exercise for more detailed instructions on how to complete these tasks.     
    
### Downloading/Uploading on GitHub & Associating Project Schema to XML file in `<oXygen/>`  
One *(or more)* learners will need to **download both your specific team's XML *(.xml file in document > archival materials folder)* and our project schema. Then, one *(or more)* learners will need to **associate our project schema to your team's assigned XML**. Instructions to download and associate are available under the section title "How to Associate the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's (TEI-based) Schema" of our Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints lesson (linked above). There will not by anything each team needs to upload to SAKAI; however, **one member from each team will be required to re-upload the team's assigned XML file in the same folder said member downloaded the original XML from to receive credit for correctly associating the project schema**. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then you will upload your XML in the German_letter2 folder with the same name as the original XML - `German_letter2.xml`.  
  
### Writing in Markdown & Working on a Team    
**Each learner will respond in markdown on their team's issue with the answers to our questions and information requests detailed in the "Step-By-Step Process" section of this exercise.** Each team has been assigned on our class's issues board an issue titled with the name of the document their team is responsible for proofing. For example: if you were assigned German Letter 2 then your issue on the issues board is titled "German Letter 2". In order to complete this assignment, **each learner of the team must equally contribute** by responding on the specific issue they are assigned. **We encourage teams to communicate primarily on their team's issue.** Additionally, remember writing on the issues board means there is the ability to **write in markdown**. More information about writing on the issues board can be found on our Working-in-GitHub wiki under the title [Using our Issues Board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Working-in-GitHub#using-our-issues-board).   
    
## Step-By-Step Process   
1. Navigate to your team's issue on [the issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues). *Remember: if you wish to keep this exercise page open at the same time right click on the link and open in a new tab/window.* Once in your team's issue, click on the link to the schema file - `MIWschema.rng`. On the right side near the top of the schema's content click the button that gives you the "Raw" view of the file. From there you can copy and paste or right click and save the file. **Be sure to keep the filename the same as it appears in our repository - `MIWschema.rng`**. Then, navigate back to your team's issue on [the issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues) and click on the link to the folder of materials for your text. *All of [the project's archival materials](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials) can also be reached through the `ProjectDocs` folder and/or the previous link.* In your team's folder you will see multiple files and possibly an additional folder. The contents of the files are identifiable by their file extensions. **The file that at least one learner will need to download is the file with the `.xml` file extension.** The XML file contains the *encoded* transcribed and translated text and will be the file you are proofing for this exercise. **Be sure to keep the filename the same as it appears in our repository when downloading.** The other files in your team's folder are Microsoft Word Documents that contain original transcriptions/translations and the PDFs or image files (which, if there are more than two, will be in a separate folder within your team's primary folder). These other files are there for your team's reference but are not required to be downloaded at this time. **At this point, you should have your team's XML file and the Project Schema file downloaded to your computer.**  
  
2. Each team member, after downloading both the schema and the team's `.xml` file, will then need to associate [the project schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/blob/master/WIKIandREADMEmaterials/MIWschema.rng) with your team's assigned XML document. Instructions to associate the schema are available under the section title "[How to Associate the Lili Elbe Digital Archive's (TEI-based) Schema](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints#how-to-associate-the-lili-elbe-digital-archives-tei-based-schema)" of our [Schematizing XML: TEI and Project Constraints](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/wiki/Schematizing-XML:-TEI-and-Project-Constraints) lesson.  **At this point, one learner will be responsible for re-uploading your team's assigned XML to your assigned document's folder in [the archival materials folder](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/tree/master/ProjectDocs/archivalMaterials) of our class repository.**  You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for uploading the team's correctly associated XML to GitHub.    

3. **One or more team members then should review the schema-validated XML and report a 2-4 sentence explanation of any errors firing in the XML on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues).** *Please note every XML included in the archival materials folder, for this exercise, will fire a schema validation error; therefore, if `<oXygen/>` does not turn red upon association then you have not correctly associated the project schema.*  To check where a validation error is occuring in the document you can either look for a red and white exclaimation point icon in the outline view or click on the red hashmark(s) to the right of the document scroll-bar. *Please refer to [this screenshot highlighting validation error indicators](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/blob/master/WIKIandREADMEmaterials/validationErrors.png).*  A proper report of each validation error will inform us of the element and or attribute the error is firing on and a learner's thoughts on why they think the error is occuring. You migt determine the reason for validation errors by decoding `<oXygen/>`'s error message and/or comparing the encoding of other similar elements/attributes in the document that are not firing validation errors with the elements/attributes that are firing errors. You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for writing the validation error report if you choose not to build it together. *Please note we are not requiring you to correct the validation errors. We simply want you to report on the errors.*         
    
4. Next, **one or more team members will need to identify and construct a list of the unique places and people mentioned in your team's XML**. This list should be built on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues). Refer to our [spreadsheet of propography IDs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TGp-RpKQi7rLHhdZTs4Vr6Ft91kPipfBwQR_7ii9bng/edit?usp=sharing) to verify each person and place has been given the correct key attribute value. Be sure to list on your team's issue the key IDs of each mentioned person and place. Also provide a count of the times each person and place are mentioned across the entire text. If a person/place doesn't have a key ID in our spreadsheet or in the XML please indicate this in your list of people and places by stating "no ID". *You are not required to make up any IDs for people or places missing IDs. Once we have a list of all the people and places that do not have IDs across all of the files Dr. Caughie will create the IDs.* You should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be responsible for writing the list of people/places and their key IDs if you choose not to build the list together. Please take advantage of your abilities to create a markdown list on your team's issue for this step of the assignment. This is an example of the information expected for any one person or place mentioned in your text: `Lili Elbe, key="lili", mentioned: 3`    
   
5.  Finally, **each team member should select two different elements used in the XML *(in the `.xml` file)* and reflect in 2-4 sentences how the project has further constrained the original TEI element.** *If you are on a team of two in total the team should have 4 2-4 sentence reports on 4 different elements. If you are on a team of three in total the team should have 6 2-4 sentence reports on 6 different elements.*  Please refer to the [TEI Guidelines](https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index.html) and [our MIW Encoding Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ReYDRpBSuiVPZsVoj2gOfuz_HP2whJwX-thl4ZtPUws/edit?usp=sharing) for documentation on the TEI's use of an element versus our project team's use. **Each learner is responsible for providing their 2 reports on your team's issue on [our class's issues board](https://github.com/RJP43/LiliElbe_EngagedLearners/issues).** For example: if you choose the persName and placeName elements *(which because they are being used here as examples you should not)* then you would write about how the project has constrained the TEI elements persName and placeName by adding the key attribute and unique key attribute values. You might explain how the TEI recommends projects use the persName and placeName elements. You then should explain what the constraint seems to be doing. So in our previous example you would say something like: the project uses the key attribute-value pair to link the mentions of people/places across texts. **You should not repeat elements in your group; therefore, you should clarify amongst your team members on your team's issue who will be writing about what elements.**   
    
     
### Recommended Team Workflow  
The absolute first step to completing this work is getting in contact with your teammate(s) via your team's issue.  Next, as a team identify the parts of the assignment you each are most comfortable with completing. The person most comfortable with uploading/downloading from GitHub should be the point person for doing steps 1, 2, and possibly 3 under "the Step-By-Step Process" section above. The person most comfortable writing a list in markdown could then be the point person for completing step 4 under "the Step-By-Step Process" above. Our recommendation in a 2-person group is for one person to do steps 1 & 2 and the other person to do step 4. Then for the team to work together on step 3 (which is the only step containing a task not yet done in any other assignment). Finally, step 5 is meant to be the part of the exercise that can be completed by each team member individually.
